Scopus
Content Coverage Guide


Updated January 2016
    Contents
     1. Introduction                                                        3
        1.1 Scopus – an overview                                            3
        1.2 Content Selection & Advisory Board                              5
        1.3 Purpose and scope                                               5

     2. Coverage of source types                                            6
        2.1 Serial source types                                             7
        2.2 Non-serial sources                                              8
        2.3 Other sources                                                   8

     3. Coverage of metadata                                                9
        3.1 Document types                                                  9
        3.2 Abstracts                                                      11
        3.3 Keywords and index terms                                       12
        3.4 Cited references                                               12
        3.5 Affiliation data                                               13
        3.6 Author profiles                                                13
        3.7 ORCID integration                                              13
        3.8 Other metadata                                                 14

     4. Coverage of sources (dating back to 1970)                          15
        4.1 Scopus title list                                              15
        4.2 Scopus title evaluation                                        16
        4.3 Global coverage                                                20
        4.4 Subject area coverage                                          21
        4.5 Complete coverage                                              22
        4.6 MEDLINE coverage                                               23

     5. Processing of Scopus content                                       24




2                                                   Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
 1. Introduction
     1.1 Scopus – an overview

     Scopus launched in November 2004. It is the largest abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature, featuring
     smart tools to track, analyze and visualize research. With over 21,500 titles from more than 5,000 international publishers,
     Scopus delivers the most comprehensive overview of the world’s research output in the fields of science, technology,
     medicine, social science and arts and humanities.


     Publishers indexed in Scopus




     Scopus at a glance, updated January 2016:

     • Over 21,500 titles (see section 4.1):
            • Over 21,500 peer-reviewed journals (including 4,200 full open access journals)
            • 360 trade publications
            • Over 530 book series
            • Over 7.2 million conference papers from over 83,000 worldwide events
            • “Articles-in-Press” from over 5,000 journals (see section 5)
            • More than 116,000 books with 120,000 expected by early 2016 and 10,000 added each year thereafter

     • Over 60 million records (see section 3.1):
            • 38+ million records with references back to 1996 of which 84% include references
            • 22+ million records pre-1996 which go back as far as 1823

     • Patents:
            • More than 27 million patent records from five patent offices (see section 2.3)

     For additional information and updates, please refer to: http://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content
     and follow the Scopus blog: http://blog.scopus.com/.



elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                 3
    Scopus content growth


            70,000,000




            60,000,000




            50,000,000




            40,000,000




            30,000,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total number of pre-1996 items
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total number of post-1995 items
            20,000,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Number of items in Scopus



            10,000,000




                    0
                         Jul. 2008

                                     Dec. 2008

                                                 May. 2009

                                                             Jul. 2009

                                                                         Nov. 2009

                                                                                     Mar.2010

                                                                                                Jul. 2010

                                                                                                            Nov. 2010

                                                                                                                        Mar.2011

                                                                                                                                   Jul. 2011

                                                                                                                                               Nov. 2011

                                                                                                                                                           Mar.2012

                                                                                                                                                                      Jul. 2012

                                                                                                                                                                                  Nov. 2012

                                                                                                                                                                                              Mar.2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jul. 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nov. 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mar.2014

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jul. 2014

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nov. 2014

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mar.2015

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jul. 2015

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nov. 2015




    Scopus supports researchers and librarians in three key areas:

    Search                                                                                                                         Discover                                                                                                                                                            Analyze
    • Search by document, author or                                                                                               • Find related documents by shared                                                                                                                                • Track citations over time for a set
       affiliation, or use Advanced Search                                                                                           references, authors and/or keywords                                                                                                                                   of authors or documents with
    • Refine results by source type, year,                                                                                        • Identify and match an organization                                                                                                                                  Citation Overview/Tracker
       language, author, affiliation and more                                                                                        with its research output using
                                                                                                                                     Affiliation Identifier                                                                                                                                            • Assess trends in search results with
    • Link to full-text articles and other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Analyze Search Results
       library resources                                                                                                           • Identify collaborators or subject
                                                                                                                                     experts with Author Identifier                                                                                                                                    • View h-index for specific authors
    • Use the QUOSA Document
       Download Manager to bulk retrieve                                                                                           • Clarify your identity through
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • Analyze an author’s publishing output
       results in PDF format                                                                                                         integration with ORCID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           with Author Evaluator
    • Export data to Reference Managers                                                                                           • Benefit from indexing with Universal
       such as Mendeley, RefWorks                                                                                                     Discovery services: EBSCOHost,                                                                                                                                   • Gain insight into journal performance
       and EndNote                                                                                                                    Primo and Summon                                                                                                                                                     with Compare Journals and
    • Stay up to date with email alerts,                                                                                          • Take advantage of interoperability                                                                                                                                  alternative journal metrics SNIP,
       RSS and HTML feeds                                                                                                            with ScienceDirect, Mendeley, SciVal,                                                                                                                                 SJR and IPP
                                                                                                                                     Reaxys and Engineering Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • Benchmark articles and decide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           what to read with the Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Metrics module




4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     1.2 Content Selection & Advisory Board

     The Content Selection & Advisory Board (CSAB) was established in 2005 to promote an open and transparent content
     coverage policy. The Board consisted of a large independent group of established subject matter experts from around the
     world. The CSAB as we know it today was formed in 2009 and is now made up of 15 independent, international scientists,
     researchers and journal editors from all scientific disciplines and geographical areas. To see a roster of the CSAB members:
     http://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content/scopus-content-selection-and-advisory-board.

     The CSAB’s primary function is to evaluate and determine which peer-reviewed titles are accepted into Scopus, and which
     are excluded. To ensure both the broadest coverage and highest quality content is included, the CSAB maintains and follows
     a transparent and robust selection policy. This policy is reviewed on a regular basis (see section 4.2).

     Additionally, the CSAB is integral in determining content strategy by:

     • Recommending long-term content approaches to ensure that Scopus remains focused on the research community’s
        information needs

     • Keeping the Scopus team abreast of trends and developments in the research community, such as new standards,
        protocols or software with which to integrate




     1.3 Purpose and scope

     This document is designed to provide readers with a complete overview of all aspects of content coverage in Scopus.

     Non-content aspects of Scopus (e.g., interface, search and other functionality) are not included within the scope of
     this document.




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                 5
    2. Coverage of source types
     The source types covered in Scopus are either serial        Percentage of Scopus serial publications
     publications that have an ISSN (International Standard
     Serial Number) such as journals, book series and some
     conference series or non-serial publications that have an                  1% 1.5%
     ISBN (International Standard Book Number) like one-off
     book publications or one-off conferences. To ensure that
     coverage, discoverability, profiles and impact measurement
     for research in all subject fields is accounted for, Scopus
                                                                                                       Active trade journals
     covers different source types.                                      35.5%
                                                                                                              Active book series
                                                                                                 61.9%
     In the table below, the figures in the columns highlight                                                 Active journals

     the significance of each content type per discipline. This                                               Inactive journals,
                                                                                                              book series,
     analysis underpins a highly targeted approach for coverage                                               trade journals

     of various source types for different fields.




                                                                                 Publication categories


         Field                                                 Books                 Journal articles        Conference papers
         Chemical sciences                                        0.2                     95.7                           1.9
         Biological sciences                                      0.3                     90.7                           2.7
         Medical & health sciences                                0.3                     90.5                           2.9
         Physical sciences                                        0.1                     90.0                           7.3
         Mathematical sciences                                    0.7                     83.8                          11.2
         Earth sciences                                           0.9                     82.2                           9.2
         Agriculture, veterinary, environment                     0.4                     79.0                          14.7
         Psychology                                               1.5                     76.2                           4.9
         Law                                                      4.1                     71.9                          1.69
         Philosophy                                                6                      64.8                           5.4
         Economics                                                2.9                     64.5                            8
         Human society                                            3.5                      63                            5.6
         Journalism, library                                      3.4                     57.2                          24.2
         Education                                                2.5                     54.5                          23.6
         The arts                                                 4.4                     54.5                          20.3
         Management                                               1.3                     52.9                           34
         Engineering                                              0.4                      52                           45.1
         Language                                                 6.5                     51.8                           7.6
         History                                                  11.6                    50.6                           3.8
         Politics and policy                                      5.8                     46.1                          10.8
         Architecture                                              3                      35.6                          43.6
         Computing, information science                           0.4                     32.8                          62.3




6                                                                                                 Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     2.1 Serial source types

     Scopus indexes serial publications (journals, trade journals, book series and conference materials) that have been assigned
     an ISSN. The exception is conference papers, which enter Scopus through different methods than do serial publications with
     ISSNs (see section “Conference Material”).

     Journals
     Journals make up the bulk of the content in Scopus and can have various physical formats (e.g., print, electronic). Titles are
     selected according to our content coverage policy (for more information see section 4.2). Any serial publication with an ISSN,
     excluding trade journals, book series, certain proceedings, newsletters, secondary sources or patent publications, can be
     suggested for review and covered in Scopus.

     Trade journals
     Trade journals are serial publications covering and intended to reach a specific industry, trade or type of business. These
     publications are usually are a magazine type of periodical with articles on topical subjects, news items and advertisements that
     appeal to those in the field. Trade journals are seldom refereed and do not always have an editorial board. Abstracts are usually
     short or nonexistent and few or no references are given. Usually an ISSN is available.

     Trade journals are included in Scopus because users and librarians consider selected articles to be scientifically relevant.
     Only articles or reviews of scientific relevance are included in Scopus. The minimum requirements for trade journal items to
     be captured are: (1) minimum of one page, (2) minimum of one mentioned author (for more information about the regular
     document type policy, see section 3.1)

     Book series
     A book series is a serial publication that has an overall series title, an ISSN, and in which every volume and/or issue in the series
     is also a book with an ISBN. Usually, but not always, each book has a book title separate from the series title and a different editor
     or editors. Typically, each book is a monographic publication. Book series are usually published irregularly.

     Conference material
     Conference material enters Scopus in two different ways: (1) as a special issue of a regular journal, (2) as a dedicated
     conference proceeding.

     Proceedings can be published as serial or non-serial, and may contain either the full articles of the papers presented or only
     the abstracts. The source title usually includes words like proceeding(s), meeting(s), conference(s), symposium/symposia,
     seminar(s) or workshop(s) (or their synonyms in other languages like Tagungsberichte, etc.), although some journals also include
     proceeding(s) in the title.

     Scopus covers conferences that publish full-text papers, i.e., document type conference papers (see section 3.1), whereas
     conferences that publish only abstracts (meeting abstracts) are not considered for coverage.

     Over 10% of the Scopus database is comprised of conference papers (over 7.2 million) of which 2 million are published in journals,
     book series and other sources. The remaining 5 million are published in conference proceedings.

     Conference coverage in Scopus is focused primarily on those subject areas where conference papers represent a substantial
     portion of published research, e.g., engineering, computer science and some areas of physics.

     A Conference Expansion Project completed in 2014 involved indexing over 1,000 conference titles, more than 6,000 conference
     events and over 400,000 conference papers, principally in engineering and computer science. The project indexed conferences
     from the big engineering publishers such as INSPIRES, ASEE and ASME.

     In the Scopus title list (see section 4.1) there are over 26,612 conferences listed in the “Conf. Proceedings” tabs, 21,235 in
     the “Conf. Proceedings post-1995” tab and 5,377 in the “Conf. Proceedings pre-1996” tab. These are conference proceedings
     from which the meeting name was captured as part of the record data, but were not published as part of a serial publication
     with an ISSN.



elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                           7
    2.2 Non-serial sources

    A non-serial source is a publication with an ISBN unless it is a report, part of a book series, proceeding (non-serial) or patent.
    It can have different physical formats (e.g., print, electronic) and is usually a monograph or composed work.

    Since August 2013, book coverage has expanded. Along with the existing book series, book content now includes monographs,
    edited volumes, major reference works and graduate level textbooks. Over 113,000 titles were added to Scopus in 2015, with a
    target of 120,000 titles expected to be reached by early 2016. Additionally, 10,000 titles will be added each year thereafter.
    This expansion significantly increases the breadth and depth of coverage for book-oriented disciplines in the social sciences
    and humanities.

    Books are indexed on both a book and a chapter level. Book selection policy is publisher-based, meaning publishers are
    reviewed based on the relevancy and quality of their complete books list. Once a publisher is accepted, all books from that
    publisher that fit the scope of the project are indexed in Scopus. To see a list of the publishers included, please refer to the
    book title list: http://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content).




    2.3 Other sources

    Secondary documents

    In Scopus, approximately 90 million records are non-core, or secondary documents. These are records that have been cited in
    Scopus core records, but are not themselves indexed in Scopus. The most highly cited of these non-core items are often books
    and older journal articles.


    Patents

    There are over 27 million patent records derived from five patent offices available in Scopus:

    1. World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
    2. European Patent Office (EPO)
    3. US Patent Office (USPTO)
    4. Japanese Patent Office (JPO)
    5. UK Intellectual Property Office (IPO.GOV.UK)




8                                                                                                  Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
 3. Coverage of metadata
     3.1 Document types

     Scopus coverage focuses on primary document types from serial publications. Primary means that the author is identical to
     the researcher in charge of the presented findings. Scopus does not include secondary document types, where the author is
     not identical to the person behind the presented research, such as obituaries and book reviews (see section 2.2).

     Scopus currently has over 60 million core records:

     • Over 38 million records back to 1996 of which 84% include references

     • Over 22 million records pre-1996 which go back as far as 1823 (abstracts included where available,
        but references are not included)

     • Approximately 3 million new records are added each year (5,500/day)

     As of December 2015, Scopus has added over 93 million pre-1996 cited references to over 5 million articles. This has been
     achieved in two ways: (1) by adding pre-1996 cited references to existing articles, and (2) by adding article back files, including
     their cited references, from the archives of 36 major publishers going back to 1970. These major publishers include: Springer,
     Wiley Blackwell, IEEE, American Physical Science and Elsevier. By the end of 2016, approximately 12 million articles will have
     gone through this process, adding an estimated 240 million pre-1996 cited references.



     Percentage of pre-1996 items compared to post-1995 items




                          37%
                     Percentage
                     of pre-1996
                         items                   63%
                                             Percentage
                                            of post-1995
                                                items




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                        9
     Document types covered in Scopus


     Document type            Definition

     Article                  Original research or opinion.

     	Characteristics: Articles in peer-reviewed journals are usually several pages in length, most often
       subdivided into sections: abstract, introduction, materials & methods, results, conclusions,
       discussion and references. However, case reports, technical and research notes and short
       communications are also considered to be articles and may be as short as one page in length.
       Articles in trade journals are typically shorter than in peer-reviewed journals, and may also be as
       brief as one page in length.

     Article-in-Press (AiP)   Accepted article made available online before official publication (see section 7).

     Book                     A whole monograph or entire book.

     	Characteristics: Book type is assigned to the whole. Additionally, for books with individual chapters,
       each chapter, along with a general item summarizing the book, is also indexed with the source
       type Book.

     Chapter                  A book chapter.

                               haracteristics: Complete chapter in a book or book series volume where the item is identified as a
                              C
                              chapter by a heading or section indicator.

     Conference paper         Original article reporting data presented at a conference or symposium.

     	Characteristics: Conference papers are of any length reporting data from a conference, with the
       exception of conference abstracts. Conference papers may range in length and content from full
       papers and published conference summaries to short items as short as one page in length (also see
       section 2.1).

     Editorial                Summary of several articles or provides editorial opinions or news.

                               haracteristics: Editorials are typically identified as editorial, introduction, leading article, preface or
                              C
                              foreword, and are usually listed at the beginning of the table of contents.

     Erratum                  Report of an error, correction or retraction of a previously published paper.

     	Characteristics: Errata are short items citing errors in, corrections to, or retractions of a previously
       published article in the same journal to which a citation is provided.

     Letter                   Letter to or correspondence with the editor.

     	Characteristics: Letters are individual letters or replies. Each individual letter or reply is processed
       as a single item.

     Note                     Note, discussion or commentary.

     	Characteristics: Notes are short items that are not readily suited to other item types. They may
       or may not share characteristics of other item types, such as author, affiliation and references.
       Discussions and commentaries that follow an article are defined as notes and considered to be items
       in their own right. Notes also include questions and answers, as well as comments on other (often
       translated) articles. In trade journals, notes are generally shorter than half a page in length.




10                                                                                                   Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     Document type              Definition

     Review                     Significant review of original research, also includes conference papers.

     	Characteristics: Reviews typically have an extensive bibliography. Educational items
       that review specific issues within the literature are also considered to be reviews.
       As non-original articles, reviews lack the most typical sections of original articles such
       as materials & methods and results.

     Short survey               Short or mini-review of original research.

     	Characteristics: Short surveys are similar to reviews, but usually are shorter (not more than
       a few pages) and with a less extensive bibliography.


     The Scopus editorial team is responsible for the classification of records. This document type policy is not valid for trade
     journals (see section 2.1).




     Document types not covered in Scopus


     Document type              Definition

     Book reviews	The Scopus policy to not include books extends to book reviews. The reason for this is that
                   they do not represent primary literature and the publishers in whose journals they appear
                   often regard them as full-text. As a full-text article, Scopus would only be able to display
                   the title of the book review, which is often identical to the actual book, causing confusion
                   to Scopus users. Lastly, book reviews are not often cited in research literature. As an
                   example of this, the average citation per item for the “Journal of Academic Librarianship”
                   drops by 50% (2.13 to 1.12) when book reviews are included.

     Conference meeting         See section 2.1
     abstracts




     3.2 Abstracts

     Over 44 million records in Scopus contain an abstract in order to provide users with as much information as possible
     about the research presented in the database. Where available from the publisher, some records go back as far as 1823.
     The increased availability of abstracts in Scopus helps to ensure that users find all relevant results for their search across
     title, abstract and keywords.




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                   11
     3.3 Keywords and index terms

     Scopus manually adds index terms for 80% of the titles included in Scopus. These index terms are derived from thesauri
     that Elsevier owns or licenses and are added to improve search recall. A team of professional indexers assigns index terms
     to records according to the following controlled vocabularies:

     • Ei Thesaurus (engineering, technology, physical sciences)

     • Emtree medical terms (life sciences, health sciences)

     • MeSH (life sciences, health sciences)

     • GEOBASE Subject Index (geology, geography, earth and environmental sciences)

     • FLX terms, WTA terms (fluid sciences, textile sciences)

     • Regional Index (geology, geography, earth and environmental sciences)

     • Species Index (biology, life sciences)

     There is no limit to the number of index terms that Scopus can add to records. However, in the case of Emtree and MeSH
     terms (both terms are added to records where available), only the index terms that have a direct relation with the topic of
     the article are displayed and made searchable on Scopus in order to avoid retrieving irrelevant results.

     For Emtree, the index terms with a direct relation are the Major Focus and the mentioned index terms. For MeSH,
     the index terms with a direct relation are Major Topics and Minor Topics. For the Ei Thesaurus, the controlled terms,
     uncontrolled terms and main headings are displayed and searchable in Scopus. All index terms are displayed for the other
     subject indices.

     For example, adverse drug reaction terms are only relevant when users are searching for articles in the context of adverse
     drug reactions, a feature which is only possible with the support of a thesaurus (not available in Scopus). For the same
     reason, for example, Ei treatment terms are not included in Scopus.

     The Scopus capturing department assigns Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) numbers as part of the normal Emtree Drugs/
     Chemicals/Thesaurus indexing. Emtree has ca. 35,000 CAS numbers, which by no means is comparable with Chemical
     Databases. CAS assignment process is purely focusing on titles that are also covered by Embase. For example, searching
     for CASREGNUMBER(1*) in Scopus will retrieve 8.6 million items.




     3.4 Cited references

     Cited references in Scopus go back to 1970. Scopus announced the launch of the Scopus Cited References Expansion
     project in March 2014. Over the course of the project, Scopus has been adding cited references for pre-1996 content,
     going back to 1970. As of December 2015, Scopus has added over 93 million pre-1996 cited references to nearly 5 million
     articles. It is estimated that approximately 12 million articles will have undergone this process by the end of 2016, possibly
     adding approximately 240 million pre-1996 cited references.

     The Cited References Expansion project’s two main benefits are:

     1. Users can measure impact, perform historical trend analyses and conduct more accurate evaluations of authors who
         have published prior to 1996.

     2. It provides more accurate and higher h-index rankings for those senior researchers – many of whom who subsequently
         have become key influencers and decision makers – who published most prolifically before the mid-1990s.

     Follow the progress of the Cited References Expansion project on the Scopus blog: http://blog.scopus.com/.




12                                                                                                 Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     3.5 Affiliation data

     It is possible to search Scopus based on affiliation data. The Scopus Affiliation Identifier automatically identifies and matches
     an organization with all of its research output. This tool is particularly relevant for deans, faculty heads and librarians in the
     academic market; researchers, project leaders and those involved in competitive intelligence in the corporate market; and
     funding bodies in the government market.

     A task that once may have taken days to complete can now be done in a matter of minutes using a combination of sophisticated
     algorithms and a comprehensive knowledge base to disambiguate name variants and automatically identify and match most
     relevant records.




     3.6 Author profiles

     It is possible to search Scopus based on author data. The Scopus Author Identifier automatically identifies and matches an
     author with all of his/her research output. This tool is particularly relevant for analyzing citation metrics for authors, as well as
     specific articles by an author. The data can also be used to find authors or reviewers to collaborate with or for hiring purposes.

     The Scopus Author Identifier assigns each author in Scopus a unique number and groups together all of the documents written
     by that author. To determine which author names should be grouped together under a single identifier number, the Scopus
     Author Identifier uses an algorithm that matches author names based on their affiliation, address, subject area, source title,
     dates of publication citations and co-authors.

     An author can request corrections to their author details directly from their profile page using the Scopus Author Feedback
     Wizard. The Wizard guides the author through the steps of finding the correct profile(s) in Scopus and checking the
     publications it contains. Authors receive email notification when their requested changes are visible in Scopus. Profile changes
     are implemented within five working days.




     3.7 ORCID integration

     ORCID (Open Researcher and Contributor Identifier) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to solving the name ambiguity
     problem in scholarly research by assigning a unique identifier to each author. From their Scopus Author Profile, authors can
     import their list of publications in Scopus and their Scopus Author Identifier into ORCID. Once an author connects their ORCID
     record with their Scopus profile, a link to their ORCID record will appear on their profile page. Scopus and ORCID share and
     sync their data on a monthly basis. Learn more about ORCID at orcid.org.




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                          13
     3.8 Other metadata

     PubMed ID

     The unique identifier for MEDLINE documents, PubMed ID, is searchable via Advanced Search. When available, it appears
     on the record page (Abstracts & References page), as well as in the export of records.

     Funding data

     Since June 2013, grant numbers are available from the acknowledgement section on the relevant record page for content
     going forward.

     These records include:

     • Sponsor name

     • Acronym

     • Grant number

     Funding information is captured if it is mentioned in the acknowledgement section of the article and if the funding body
     is included in the FundRef ontology: http://www.crossref.org/fundref/. At the start of capturing funding data (June 2013),
     around 5,000 funding bodies were included. Currently, the number of funding bodies has increased to over 11,000. The
     FundRef ontology is not complete yet and not all relevant funding bodies are covered at this time.

     Open access

     More than 4,200 journal titles are full open access (OA) journals. OA refers to journals in which all peer-reviewed scholarly
     articles are online available without any restrictions.

     In Scopus, journals are registered as being OA journals only if they are registered as Gold OA or Subsidized OA at one or
     both of the following sources:

     • Directory of Open Access Journals: https://doaj.org/

     • Directory of Open Access Scholarly Resources: http://road.issn.org/

     Please note that in Scopus, open access is only registered on journal level and not on article level.

     For the full OA journal list, please download the Scopus Title list here: http://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content.
     In this list you can filter on OA status to see the full journal list.

     Scopus includes an open access indicator for journals indexed in Scopus. The indicator allows users to easily identify open
     access journals within Scopus via the Browse Sources link. This link provides an alphabetical list of all journals, book series,
     trade publications and conference proceedings available in Scopus.




14                                                                                                  Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
 4. Coverage of sources (dating back to 1970)
     4.1 Scopus title list

     The Scopus Journals title list contains over 34,000 titles in total, including over 21,500 active titles and over 12,000 inactive
     titles (mostly predecessors of the active titles). The Scopus Books title list contains more than 116,000 books.

     Complete lists of titles (for both journals and books) in Scopus are available externally from the Scopus info site at:
     https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content.

     The lists are identical to the list available on Scopus.com in the Browse Sources section.

     The title lists and the sources section are updated 2-3 times per year and include only journals and books with substantial
     coverage on Scopus.com at the time of the update. Titles that are newly added to Scopus will be visible in the title list and the
     source section only as of the next update after the first content appears on Scopus. To check whether the content of recently
     added title is already available on Scopus, perform an advanced search on Scopus.com using the search code <srctitle> and
     entering the name of the title.

     For more information about the Scopus subject areas, see section 4.4.


     Which titles are included in the title list and source browse?

     Neither the title list nor the titles included in the source browse on Scopus accurately reflect all the content in Scopus. In fact,
     the Scopus database contains records of 42,000 unique titles, which are all available via the Scopus basic search functionality.
     There are 8,000 titles, however, which are not included in either the title list or the source browse because these titles are:

     • Stand-alone books and reports (i.e., books and reports that are not part of a book series). One-off book publications are
        listed in a separate book title list. Download the list from our info site: http://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content

     • Pre-1996 discontinued (i.e., non-active) titles. Pre-1996 titles having child-parent relationships, however, are included
        (independent of the number of articles)

     • Post-1995 titles with less than 25 articles, unless these appear to be newly started publications from the previous year and
        the current year. Post-1995 titles having child-parent relationships, however, are always included (independent of the number
        of articles)




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                         15
     4.2 Scopus title evaluation

     It is estimated that there are between 80,000 and 300,000 scientific serial publications in existence worldwide. In order to
     ensure that Scopus remains the most relevant resource for all research in the sciences, technology, medicine, social sciences
     and arts and humanities fields, the CSAB continually reviews new titles for inclusion, using transparent selection criteria (see
     https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content/content-policy-and-selection). New title suggestions may come from
     librarians, publishers and journal editors and can be submitted using the Title Suggestion form on the Scopus info site:
     http://suggestor.step.scopus.com/suggestTitle.cfm.

     Scopus receives approximately 3,000 serial title suggestions on an annual basis. The number of suggested titles can vary
     significantly per subject area from only a few titles (e.g., in chemistry) to several hundred (e.g., in social sciences).


     Number of titles suggested for Scopus coverage per month




              Not for review        For review



     Number of titles reviewed for Scopus coverage and acceptance rate of reviewed titles per month




              Acceptance rate       Number of titles reviewed




16                                                                                                 Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     Criteria for title selection

     Titles should meet the following main eligibility criteria to be considered for review:

     • Consist of peer-reviewed content

     • Be published on a regular basis (have an ISSN number that has been registered with the International ISSN Centre)

     • Be relevant and readable for an international audience (e.g., have references in Roman script and English language abstracts
        and titles)

     • Have a publication ethics and publication malpractice statement

     CSAB subject matter experts review titles using both quantitative and qualitative measures, and the selection is partly based
     on sample documents from the title. The criteria that will be used in the review process are grouped in five main categories:
     journal policy, content, citedness, regularity and online availability. These criteria can be found on the Scopus info site:
     http://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content/content-policy-and-selection.

     The Scopus Title Evaluation Platform (STEP) (see below) enables the CSAB members to evaluate and add new titles on a
     continuous basis and to establish reliable turnaround.



        Category                    Criteria



        Journal policy              Convincing editorial policy
                                    Diversity in geographical distribution of editors
                                    Diversity in geographical distribution of authors
                                    Type of peer-review
                                    Cited references in Roman script
                                    English language abstracts

        Content                     Academic contribution to the field
                                    Clarity of abstracts
                                    Conformity with the journal’s stated aims and scope
                                    Readability of articles

        Journal standing            Citedness of journal articles in Scopus
                                    Editor standing

        Regularity                  No delay in the publication schedule

        Online availability         Online content available
                                    English language journal homepage
                                    Quality of journal homepage




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                    17
     Title re-evaluation

     Curation of the data already covered in Scopus is no less important than the selection of content. Many journals benefit from
     the increased visibility and accessibility of their content through the global reach and use of Scopus, and we have observed
     this through an increase in output, citation and usage. However, there are also journals that alter their editorial policies and
     publishing standards and underperform over time.

     As an incentive for journals to maintain their high content quality, Scopus re-evaluates low-performing journals based on a set
     of metrics and benchmarks and in comparison to peer journals in their subject fields. The set metrics and benchmarks are:



        Metric                       Benchmark           Explanation



        Self-citations               200%	The journal has a self-citation rate two times higher, or more, when
                                           compared to peer journals in its subject field.

        Citations                    50%	The journal received half the number of citations, when compared to peer
                                          journals in its subject field.

        Impact Per Publication       50%	The journal has an IPP score half or less than the average IPP score, when
                                          compared to peer journals in its subject field.

        Article output               50%	The journal produced half, or less, the number of articles, when
                                          compared to peer journals in its subject field.

        Abstract usage               50%	The journal’s abstract are used half as much, or less, when compared to
                                          peer journals in its subject field.

        Full text links              50%	The journal’s full text links are used half as much, or less, when compared
                                          to peer journals in its subject field.



     Journals will receive a pre-warning if they do not meet the set benchmarks and will receive a one-year period to improve at
     least one metric. If the journal, after this one-year period, has not improved any metric, the journal will be re-evaluated by a
     CSAB member based on the transparent title evaluation criteria (see above) with the possible consequence of the journal being
     discontinued in Scopus. The re-evaluation process is an annual rolling process.




18                                                                                                Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     Content Selection & Advisory Board Subject Chairs

     The Content Selection & Advisory Board comprises 15 subject chairs who are senior researchers, experienced in editorial
     roles, and are responsible for reviewing all the titles within a specific subject area. The subject chairs have the clear ownership
     per title in their respective area, and are ultimately responsible for the final vote as to whether a new journal title is included in
     Scopus. Subject chairs can choose to:

     • Either reject/accept the submitted title based on his/her own judgment according to the Content Coverage Policy (see
        section 4.2: Scopus title evaluation ), or

     • Involve additional reviewers, who have the respective subject expertise and/or the language skills required to read and
        evaluate journals publishing in other languages than English


     Scopus Title Evaluation Platform

     The Scopus Title Evaluation Platform (STEP) is a web-based editorial system, streamlining the entire title evaluation process
     from submission until the final decision, including the feedback to the suggestor and publisher/ editor of newly suggested
     titles. STEP offers several benefits, including:

     • Those suggesting new titles receive feedback on why their title was accepted or rejected via a consistent process
        of communication

     • Shorter decision-making cycle


     When are new titles selected by the Content Selection & Advisory Board added to Scopus?

     Once a title is accepted for inclusion in Scopus, the Elsevier Bibliographic Databases Operations department will contact
     the publisher in order to set up the content feed. After the content feed has been set up, it will take up to a few weeks before
     the title will be added to Scopus.

     As per the above section on title re-evaluation, Scopus will, on an annual basis, curate the journal quality of all titles in
     the database.




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                                           19
     4.3 Global coverage


     Scopus coverage is global by design to best serve researchers’ needs and ensure that relevant scientific information is not
     omitted from the database. Titles from all geographical regions are covered, including non-English titles as long as English
     abstracts can be provided with the articles. In fact, approximately 21% of titles in Scopus are published in languages other
     than English, adding up to 40 local languages (or published in both English and another language). In addition, more than
     half of Scopus content originates from outside North America representing various countries Europe, Latin America and the
     Asia Pacific regions.

     For a breakdown of titles per country, determined by the location of the publisher, you can download and sort the titles list
     by country and by publisher from: http://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content.


     Number of titles in Scopus (active) vs. Web of Science geographical region (February 2014)




              10,000
               9,000
               8,000
               7,000                                                                                                                Scopus
               6,000
               5,000                                                                                                                Web of Science
               4,000
               3,000
               2,000
               1,000
                   0
                            e




                                             ca




                                                           ica




                                                                         pe




                                                                                           ca




                                                                                                         nd
                                  l)




                                                                               S)




                                                                                                                      ic
                         op
                               ae




                                                                             CI
                                            eri




                                                                                         eri




                                                                                                                  cif
                                                                       ro




                                                                                                        ala
                                                         Afr
                             Isr
                       ur




                                                                            a&
                                                                      Eu




                                                                                                                Pa
                                        Am




                                                                                       Am
                            cl.




                                                                                                       Ze
                       nE




                                                                         ssi
                                                        st,
                         (in




                                                                                                               ia
                                                                  rn
                                                                       Ru
                                                      Ea




                                                                                                     w
                                       rth




                                                                                      th
                   ter




                                                                                                              As
                                                                 ste




                                                                                                   Ne
                                                                      cl.




                                                                                    ou
                                                   le
                                       No
                  es




                                                                   (in
                                                                 Ea
                                                  idd




                                                                                  dS




                                                                                                  nd
                W




                                                                                                aa
                                                                                 an
                                                  M




                                                                                             ali
                                                                             ral




                                                                                            str
                                                                            nt




                                                                                           Au
                                                                         Ce




     Number of journal titles by broad subject area. Note: Journal titles may belong to more than one subject area.




20                                                                                                                         Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     4.4 Subject area coverage


     Scopus publications per subject area




                                        15%

                  32%                                                      Life sciences
                                                                           Social sciences
                                                                           Physical sciences
                                                  24%
                                                                           Health sciences



                                29%




     Scopus offers the broadest, most integrated coverage of peer-reviewed literature and quality web sources across
     the sciences, technology, medicine (STM), as well as social sciences and arts & humanities (A&H).

     Titles in Scopus are classified under four broad subject clusters (life sciences, physical sciences, health sciences
     and social sciences & humanities), which are further divided into 27 major subject areas and 300+ minor subject
     areas. Titles may belong to more than one subject area. Download the title list on the Scopus info site:
     https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content.



        Social sciences               Health sciences                 Physical sciences               Life sciences
        9,810                         12,912                          11,725                          6,318

        Psychology                    100% MEDLINE                    Chemistry                       Neuroscience
        Economics                     Nursing                         Physics                         Pharmacology
        Business                      Dentistry                       Engineering                     Biology
        A&H




                                                  More than 21,500 titles in Scopus

                                              Titles can be in more than one subject area




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                         21
     Arts & humanities

     As of 2008, Scopus covered around 2,000 humanities titles. In 2009, to increase the number of humanities titles in the
     database, project MUSE (a not-for-profit full-text platform of many arts & humanities journals with international relevance
     from primarily US-based university presses) and the initial European Reference Index for the Humanities (ERIH) list were used
     to identify additional relevant titles. In 2011, a similar project was executed in which the coverage of the revised ERIH list,
     the Social Science Citation Index, the Arts & Humanities Citation Index, the titles list of Evaluation Agency for Research and
     Evaluation, France (AERES), and the humanities journal indexes Cairns and Francis were used. These journals were reviewed
     and added, together with the humanities titles selected for Scopus coverage via the Scopus Title Evaluation Process (STEP).

     Scopus coverage has now grown to almost 3,500 humanities titles (4,200 when including humanities-related titles) and
     includes all serial publication types, such as journals, book series and conference series. Since 2014, more than 116,000 book
     titles have been added to Scopus. As more than 55% of the added book titles represent the arts & humanities and social
     sciences, this significantly expands the coverage for these areas. When combined with the strength of Scopus in bibliographic
     search, discoverability and evaluation tools, expanded coverage allows users to better measure the impact and scholarly
     achievement of the humanities in a more quantitative way.

     At the moment, arts & humanities titles are part of the social sciences subject cluster in Scopus. Users can exclude or limit to
     arts & humanities results from their search results by using the refine results overview. For more information about subject
     areas in Scopus see section 6.

     Please refer to the info site for more details about arts & humanities coverage, including a list of titles: http://www.elsevier.
     com/solutions/scopus/content. You can also read more about the books expansion here: http://blog.scopus.com/posts/scopus-
     content-update-75000-book-titles-and-counting.



     4.5 Complete coverage

     Scopus was launched in late November 2004. At that time, Scopus contained 14,200 journals. There have been approximately
     7,500 new titles added to Scopus since 2004. As per industry standards, Scopus does not backfill content for newly added
     journals, but rather begins coverage with the most recent journal issue in the year that it is accepted for inclusion in Scopus.
     However, if back file content for newly added journals is provided, Scopus may decide to cover the back files as well.

     Upon the launch of Scopus, the decision was made to add cited references going back to 1996. In 2014, Scopus announced
     the launch of the Cited Reference Expansion project to include cited references in its database going back to 1970. By the
     end of 2016, a total of 240 million cited references will be added to approximately 12 million articles, coming from 36 major
     publishers and dating back to 1970. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2016, with the majority of the
     project already completed in 2015.

     Learn more on the Scopus blog: http://blog.scopus.com/posts/breaking-the-1996-barrier-scopus-adds-nearly-4-million-pre-
     1996-articles-and-more-than-83.




22                                                                                                Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     Records pre- and post-1996

     Scopus is 99% complete for titles originally included in Scopus back to 1996 (see beginning of section 4.5).

     • 73% of all the articles in Scopus have an abstract going back as far as 1823

     • 84% of all records after 1995 have abstracts

     In response to market research and interviews with customers, Scopus has added back files (pre-1996) for journals from a
     variety of publishers back to volume 1, issue 1 where available (see above section).



     4.6 MEDLINE coverage

     MEDLINE is a database that can be hosted (via the free platform PubMed) by third parties, such as Ovid, Web of
     Knowledge, Embase or Scopus.

     PubMed’s main component is MEDLINE, but it also contains other data. Scopus covers all 5,000 MEDLINE titles
     from 1966 and, as of 2010, also includes OLDMEDLINE content published between 1949 and 1965. For the majority
     of MEDLINE titles, Scopus has agreements with the publishers directly and receives the content from them. For the
     remaining journals (approximately 700) MEDLINE supplies Scopus directly and these titles are referred to as “MEDLINE
     sourced” in Scopus (previously MEDLINE unique). The advantages of covering MEDLINE in Scopus is that the MEDLINE
     records are fully integrated with the Scopus citation network and Scopus author profiles.




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                             23
 5. Processing of Scopus content
     Obtaining content

     Scopus content is obtained from over 5,000 publishers worldwide. Scopus has content delivery agreements in place with each
     publisher and receives content in both print and electronic formats. Currently, 85% of material is received electronically and/
     or sourced from the journal websites.

     For over 85% of the journals in Scopus, the data from publishers gets delivered via e-Feeds (XML or PDF deliveries) or
     downloads from journal websites. This ensures the fastest possible processing and indexing. On average, fully-indexed article
     data will appear in Scopus within 2-3 weeks of publication on the publisher’s website. A diminishing number of publishers
     still supply their journal issues in paper format. Processing and indexing of such data usually takes 4-5 weeks, including
     distribution and delivery from publishers’ warehouses.



     Articles-in-Press (AiP)

     “Articles-in-Press” (AiP) are pre-published versions of accepted articles. AiP do not contain cited references and are
     de-duplicated once the final version is published and made available in Scopus. Publishers usually use a File Transfer Protocol
     (FTP) service to deliver the pre-published version to Scopus once it has appeared on their website. Once received, Scopus
     usually makes it available online within four days. The average time it takes before an AiP becomes a published article in a
     specific issue, however, can vary from weeks to months depending on how often the journal is published (e.g., bi-weekly
     vs. quarterly).

     AiP for nearly 5,000 journals are provided by the following publishers:

     • Cambridge University Press

     • Elsevier

     • Springer

     • Karger Medical and Scientific Publishers

     • Nature Publishing Group (NPG)

     • The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)

     • BioMed Central (BMC)

     • Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins (LWW)

     • Thieme

     • American Association for the Advancement of Science (Science)

     • BMJ Publishing Group

     • World Scientific

     • Wiley Blackwell

     • American Psychological Association (APA)

     • Taylor & Francis

     • Primary Care Respiratory Society UK (PCRJ)




24                                                                                               Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
     Alerts can be set up in order to receive notification once an AiP is published as an article. Two alerts are needed:

     1. DOCTYPE(AR) [article]

     2. DOCTYPE(IP) [in press]



     In order to search for published articles only (and not include AiP), the user must add the following criterion to their
     advanced search: AND NOT DOCTYPE(IP).

     Another database with coverage of AiP is MEDLINE on PubMed. However, this “early view” layer is not part of the
     MEDLINE feed to 3rd party vendors, so Scopus does not receive AiP from MEDLINE. For more information about
     MEDLINE coverage see section 4.6.




 Conclusion
     This guide is updated annually and is designed to provide a complete overview of the content coverage in Scopus
     and corresponding policies. As Scopus is updated daily, the numbers presented in this guide may differ from
     current numbers. To find up-to-date content numbers, please refer to the content page of our info site:
     https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/scopus/content. The numbers presented on the info site are updated
     regularly throughout the year.




elsevier.com/scopus                                                                                                             25
 Notes




26       Scopus | Content Coverage Guide
elsevier.com/scopus   27
For more information about Scopus,
please visit: elsevier.com/scopus                           02.16




                                     Copyright ©2016
                                     Elsevier B.V.
                                     All rights reserved.
