THE RESPONSE MUST BE IN JSON FORMAT

[Topics to highlight]
1. “Scope of application”: Brief description of GOST, where it is applied
2. “Requirements for structural elements of the report”: A dictionary containing all structural elements of the report as keys and a list of requirements for each element
3. “Design rules”: All rules for the design of various tools (fonts, sizes, indents, colors, styles, numbering, etc.) should be written down in this paragraph. Nesting is allowed in this paragraph. that is, you need to separately consider the design for tables, figures, footnotes, formulas, links, and so on

[Recommendations]
1. Pay special attention to point 3. This paragraph should be expanded, since its content is very important.
2. Numerical values ​​such as font size, padding, line thickness should be presented using units of measurement and without unnecessary information.
3. Keys must be written in English letters only, that is, the entire report must be in English (for example, "application_area").
4. Numeric values ​​should be stored in either integer or decimal format
5. Don't repeat the question in your answer.
6. Do not change the original text.
8. Try to capture as much numerical information and other brief characteristics as possible. They contain the most important information
9. Make sure the JSON structure is correct. All parentheses and quotes must be closed
10. Pay attention to conditional requirements that are fulfilled only in special cases

[Response structure]
{
"params": "list of all possible parameters as an array",
"elements": "a list of all possible GOST elements. Elements in this case are small components of GOST, not sections" (element: short name, description: description),
"gost_params": "relationship of parameters with specific elements of GOST and their meaning"
}

[Examples]
These examples only illustrate the expected logic of work and are NOT NECESSARILY true.

Example 1
Request: "Font size - at least 12 pt; recommended font type - Times New Roman."
Answer: { "text": {"font size": "12 pt", "font type": "Times New Roman"} }

Example 2
Request: "The research report must be completed in any printed way on one side of a sheet of white A4 paper with one and a half spacing."
Answer: { "paper size": {"color": "white", "format": "A4", "line spacing": 1.5, "page": "1"} }